README.md, before:

# Risky EMU

Make and share toy programs for the RISC-V instruction set!

## Installation

1. Fork the current repository and clone it to your local machine.
2. Once cloned, open in a code editor of your choice (this application was created in VSCode).
3. Open a terminal within your code editor and used the command 'npm i' to install the required packages and dependencies.
4. If applicable, create a .env file and fill in the enviroment variables for the program. Its possible that there will only be on environment variable for the front end which will be "PORT"
5. Once all steps have been completed you can run the start script to begin running locally on your machine.

## Technologies Used

#### **React** - 
> The front end framework used to create the web application
#### **TypeScript** - 
> Strongly typed, object-oriented, complied programming language used in tandem with JavaScript and JSX to create this project
#### **Sass** -
> CSS preprocessor for more concise, modular styling
#### **dotenv** - 
> For environment variable declaration and security
#### **nodemon** - 
> Used to monitor the devlopment of our express based Node.js app
#### **risc-v-emulator** -
> Package created for this project containing the logic for the RISC-V emulator and assembler. [Click here for package homepage](https://github.com/Aloeminium108/risc-v-emulator)

## Project Usage

TODO: Write Project Usage section

## Project Roadmap

### Goals

**Unprivileged RISC-V base instruction set emulation**
- [x] ~~RV32I~~
- [ ] RV64I

**RISC-V extensions**
- [ ] M (Standard Extension for Integer Multiplication and Division)
- [ ] F (Standard Extension for Single-Precision Floating-Point)
- [ ] A (Standard Extension for Atomic Instructions)
  - [ ] Parallelized core emulation

**RISC-V Assembler**
- [ ] Assembler for RV32I base ISA
  - [x] ~~Assembly of native instructions~~
  - [ ] Pseudo-instruction interpreter
  - [ ] Parse and calculate offsets for labels
  - [ ] Linking of symbols
  - [ ] Section directives
- [ ] Assembler for RV64I base ISA
- [ ] Assembly of instructions from select extensions
  - [ ] M
  - [ ] F
  - [ ] A

**Program Editor**
- [ ] Basic text editor
- [ ] Syntax highlighting
- [ ] Basic linting

**Program execution view**
- [ ] Basic view of registers and RAM
- [ ] Graphical view with memory-mapped I/O
 
## Authors and Acknowledgment

#### Primary Lead and Scrum Master - [Aloeminium108](https://github.com/Aloeminium108)
---
#### Secondary Lead - [BLDubroff](https://github.com/BLDubroff)
---

## Contributing

For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

If applicable

## Project Status

Actively in development

Commit message:

Gave up on creating a code editor from scratch in React and imported Monaco

README.md, after:

# Risky EMU

Make and share toy programs for the RISC-V instruction set!

## Installation

1. Fork the current repository and clone it to your local machine.
2. Once cloned, open in a code editor of your choice (this application was created in VSCode).
3. Open a terminal within your code editor and used the command 'npm i' to install the required packages and dependencies.
4. If applicable, create a .env file and fill in the enviroment variables for the program. Its possible that there will only be on environment variable for the front end which will be "PORT"
5. Once all steps have been completed you can run the start script to begin running locally on your machine.

## Technologies Used

#### **React** - 
> The front end framework used to create the web application
#### **TypeScript** - 
> Strongly typed, object-oriented, complied programming language used in tandem with JavaScript and JSX to create this project
#### **Sass** -
> CSS preprocessor for more concise, modular styling
#### **dotenv** - 
> For environment variable declaration and security
#### **Monaco** - 
> The code editor that powers VSCode, accessible in React through the @monaco-editor/react package
#### **risc-v-emulator** -
> Package created for this project containing the logic for the RISC-V emulator and assembler. [Click here for package homepage](https://github.com/Aloeminium108/risc-v-emulator)

## Project Usage

TODO: Write Project Usage section

## Project Roadmap

### Goals

**Unprivileged RISC-V base instruction set emulation**
- [x] ~~RV32I~~
- [ ] RV64I

**RISC-V extensions**
- [ ] M (Standard Extension for Integer Multiplication and Division)
- [ ] F (Standard Extension for Single-Precision Floating-Point)
- [ ] A (Standard Extension for Atomic Instructions)
  - [ ] Parallelized core emulation

**RISC-V Assembler**
- [ ] Assembler for RV32I base ISA
  - [x] ~~Assembly of native instructions~~
  - [ ] Pseudo-instruction interpreter
  - [ ] Parse and calculate offsets for labels
  - [ ] Linking of symbols
  - [ ] Section directives
- [ ] Assembler for RV64I base ISA
- [ ] Assembly of instructions from select extensions
  - [ ] M
  - [ ] F
  - [ ] A

**Program Editor**
- [ ] Basic text editor
- [ ] Syntax highlighting
- [ ] Basic linting

**Program execution view**
- [ ] Basic view of registers and RAM
- [ ] Graphical view with memory-mapped I/O
 
## Authors and Acknowledgment

#### Primary Lead and Scrum Master - [Aloeminium108](https://github.com/Aloeminium108)
---
#### Secondary Lead - [BLDubroff](https://github.com/BLDubroff)
---

## Contributing

For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

If applicable

## Project Status

Actively in development
